I've spent nearly four years and fifty
thousand dollars running a B2B podcast
and now it's time to share what actually
works
[Music]
hey I'm Sam Dunning host of the top 10
B2B marketing podcast business great
show and to check out my free playbooks
resources podcasts and whenever you're
ready to apply to work with me head over
to
samdunning.org I've gone from using a
super cheap webcam and microphone right
through to using industry standard
equipment hello and welcome to Sam's
business growth show and this is the
very very first episode and I'm
absolutely thrilled to be joined by the
social selling Powerhouse that is Daniel
Disney and I've learned everything the
tough the difficult way in this guide
you're going to learn the full strategy
how to pick a niche for your B2B podcast
the tools and the kit that I recommend
you use how to actually drive B2B leads
Inc inquiries and revenue from your
podcast and how to Market and get your
podcast found so you can make sure that
you're building your company and
personal brand you're driving warm
inbound qualified inquiries you're
growing your revenue and you can build
relationships with idle clients with
your B2B podcast let's dive in so what
are some of the top mistakes that I see
when it comes to B2B podcasting well the
first is not picking a niche not being
specific or intentional enough with your
show title format the audience and the
style of episodes the second is thinking
that downloads or views are the only
thing that should go after so unless
you're a huge name a corporate massive
brand or a massive celebrity you want to
focus more on the type of audience that
are tuning in to your podcast rather
than trying to get tens and tens and
hundreds of thousands of people that may
not even be relevant prospects because
after we want the B2B podcast to
generate the right type of audience and
acquire inbound leads and revenue at the
end of the day and the last thing is
only stopping after a couple episodes so
basically not seeing the podcast through
thinking yeah we'll do a few episodes
and that should be enough do a one and
done or two and done so many podcasts
stop after episode 5 10 or less so
actually making sure you've got a
long-term Vision with your podcast is
vital so first and foremost you want to
make sure you pick a niche for your B2B
podcast I made the mistake when I first
started my podcast of naming it Sam's
business growth show and having no real
strategy when it came to guest
interviews I was interviewing all kinds
of people from entrepreneurs to sales
leaders marketers business owners
friends and more it was really good fun
it was almost like a university on
steroids I learned a ton but the podcast
wasn't driving any inbound leads revenue
or having any impact on my businesses
and I spent way too long on background
stories with guests right at the
beginning of this show which took up 10
15 minutes until I got to the meet and
actionable tips of the episode and there
was no real Focus
once I renamed my podcast to business
Grove show B2B marketing and demand
generation podcast and I got a lot more
intentional with the focus of episodes I
started to see results so my
recommendations for your podcast name
after learning from the mistakes I made
are to be as narrow specific in his
niche in your podcast name as possible
so actually include the sector or the
category that you're in within the name
so it's easily findable and searchable
On Tools like apple podcast or YouTube
or the other tools that people use to
discover podcasts on so for example if
your podcast was about B2B sales and
selling maybe you're a sales training
company or consultancy and perhaps you
focus on Discovery calls specifically as
a specialism your show name might be
Discovery cool success hyphen B2B sales
and selling tips that way you're
covering what you specialize in but
you've got your main sector and keyword
there so you can be found
so let's dig into the strategy there's
two super common types of episodes on
B2B podcasting you've got solar episodes
or secondly you've got guest episodes on
my podcast business growth show I tend
to do a healthy balance of both guest
episodes and solo episodes so let's get
stuck into a few options on both formats
so there's a few ways you can do guest
episodes you'll likely want to get some
warm contacts so people you know offline
or people in your existing Network that
are going to be relevant to the show to
get the first couple episodes under your
belt and get comfortable doing those
interviews then the first episode Style
with guest episodes is ABM account based
marketing play so the idea behind this
is you invite guests from your target
accounts that your team wants to be
selling to for example if your focus
clients were perhaps VPS of marketing
from cyber security companies you might
make a full list of all these Target
accounts using sales Navigator or
similar prospecting tool and then do
some Outreach techniques which I'll
share in a sec so the the idea is you
run a fantastic show of them around that
area of expertise you have some
conversation back and forth before
recording and after recording to build
up a relationship build up some Rapport
them I'll often ask after recording if
there's anything further I can do to be
helping them or if anyone I can
introduce them to to help them out and
I'll sometimes ask how they're handling
the problem that we fix at the end of
the call so for example I might say in
our case there's a B2B SEO company I
might say how are you making sure that
when prospects search for your services
or offers on Google the competitors
aren't above you stealing traffic or
opportunities something like like that
and they'll quite often say either we've
got a team in-house or that's something
you want to look at soon and we might
arrange a call to discuss it further or
we might just stay in touch afterwards
then after you've done the episode go on
to promote it which we'll talk about
shortly
and now after you finish that recording
you know you've got a new person in your
network they trust you you've had a
great convo and if they've got any
requirements in the future it's likely
that you'll be in their mind you can of
course add them on LinkedIn add them to
your email list and send them a note
send them a message from time to time it
can also this strategy can also work
really well if there's already prospects
in your existing sales team pipeline
that you want to warm up by inviting to
your podcast well guest episode Style 2
is to interview the famous people in
your Niche this can be pretty decent
early on in your podcast Journey so when
you are trying to attract potential
prospects to the podcast you can name
drop them in your Outreach and your
personalized LinkedIn messages or your
email reach so they can actually see as
a form of social proof it gives you big
clout when you use these names because
not only will they provide really useful
tips hopefully to your audience but
they're going to have big audiences
themselves maybe on LinkedIn and maybe
on that email list maybe on other social
channels so it can help both with
promotion with getting clout and getting
social proof for both your own audience
and for potential guests that you want
to get on the show so moving on to solo
episodes these are superb to dive deep
into an area of your own expertise and
can make for solid Evergreen searchable
content through the podcast players
through Google and even YouTube if
you're doing video episodes plus after
you've recorded them you can produce
them into blog articles you can use a
transcription tool to get all the
information into text and then you can
make some manual updates with a human of
course to make sure they're going to be
educational and useful to your target
audience so I recommend embedding the
YouTube video or audio podcast video
into those articles on the page and it's
a great way to get targeted traffic from
focused prospects to your website so
solar episodes a really good way to
build trust directly with your audience
I typically get inspiration and ideas
for solo episodes from sales calls
customer conversations listen to other
industry podcasts and sector audio books
and more usually I tend to build
episodes around common problems that get
raised on calls or common objections
that get raised on sales calls questions
get asked all the time how to do
something best tips for doing something
how to improve something why is this an
issue and so on industry to friends so
in my case new happenings with Google
algorithms new website tips ideas and
more stories rather they're personal
stories industry stories
Etc and anything else that comes to my
mind that I believe will add value or
give my audience something educational
entertaining or useful
and if you're going to throw solo
episodes into the mix for your B2B
podcast strategy it's worth having a
clear call to action whether that's at
the start in the middle or in the end or
perhaps at the start and the end where
you want to drive your audience or maybe
you want them to check out your email
list a lead Magnet or guide them to your
website make sure it's super crisp super
clear so audience knows the relevant
action to take and you can drive some
business results from the episodes so
when it comes to inviting guests onto
your podcast my favorite approach once
you've made a targeted list using your
prospecting tool or LinkedIn or sales
Navigator or something similar I like to
send those prospects the guests I want
on the podcast a painfully short
LinkedIn message so for example sake I'm
on my friend Justin Rose profile who
runs impactable LinkedIn ads agency
so I might send something simple
straight to the point like this hey
Justin enjoyed your recent post on
LinkedIn thought leader ads especially
the part about sponsoring ads that are
performing well and organic so you know
they're going to hit well with Target
prospects would love to have you share
your insights on my top B2B marketing
podcast and then the CTA is are you
against a convo against a conversation
with a question mark
that has a pretty decent hit rate I've
put it in the message box but you can
use that as a personalized request if
you're not yet connected to the person
on LinkedIn
um if they don't respond to that initial
Outreach but they connect then you can
just put a simple one-liner I tend to do
with just PS check the show here and
then just put a hyperlink to the podcast
and that tends to get a pretty good
response rate so yeah start reaching out
to those prospects that you've made in
your list and send them those painfully
short messages that are to the point
give them a quick bit of Praise on their
recent value add and then invite them to
the podcast you've got to remember who
doesn't like going on podcasts and
talking about how great They are
promoting their company and giving some
actionable tips that they can then
re-share to Their audience on socials
their email list and more so once you've
got a few
guess that are Keen excited to come on
your show then I typically would
recommend sending them a candidly link
so they can easily book out a designated
slot so a good thing about using
calendar tools like calendars you can
designate certain slots that are
available for the podcast and timings
and you can put in the description how
it works so I've just got a link to the
show I say that I'll send you the link
to record on stream yard a few minutes
before we record on LinkedIn live to get
extra exposure and then we produce it
and I also mentioned I'm going to send
them a guest form so once they've booked
the time on the calendar
to do the guest episode recording then
we send them through a very simple guest
form so the guest form is just a
two-pager simple simple document it
gives introduction and FAQ so it
basically says here's a link to view all
the shows the audience
um in our case B2B marketers Founders
sales execs Etc and we basically explain
the format of the show just say it's not
a set of scripted questions there's a
question couple questions below so we
can make sure the show is focused on
your area of expertise and you can share
actual tips talks about how he records
so in our case record on stream yard and
then afterwards we produce the episodes
and then send you a promotional clip
um with all the episodes artwork video
clips and all that good stuff it says
please ensure you've got a decent
microphone ready and a decent webcam
because we do video as well as audio and
also ask them at the end
to give us a quick review in advance so
if they can go on to Apple and leave us
a review it really helps us get more
exposure and then after that we just ask
them to put their name LinkedIn link
website and a few topic ideas so then I
can prep a few questions and a few ideas
for the episode so we don't go in blind
we're all prepped and we're ready to
perform the guest episode on the chosen
date so let's dig into processes in
tools there's a bunch of ways you can go
about recording and producing your
podcast with audio video you can go live
or you can record it all offline then
produce it this is the process I use on
business growth show and feel free to
take what's going to work for you so
solo episode I draft up a rough script I
try and make the episode titled
searchable from an SEO standpoint for
YouTube the podcast channels and more I
record it usually using Zoom there's
tons of other video recording tools that
you can check out too once I've done the
recording on Zoom I Chuck it into Google
Drive then our producer will edit the
video using veed or Final Cut and then
he uses audacity to chop up the audio
podcast version when it comes to guest
episodes we typically already have them
fill out the guest form I talked about
earlier so we've already prepped an
actionable topic around that area of
expertise we record those episodes using
stream yard which enables us to go live
on LinkedIn for extra exposure before we
produce the episode and there's tons of
other live streaming softwares just like
Riverside FM and after the interview we
add the files to Google Drive
producer edits them all up again using
these Final Cut Pro and audacity again
to edit the audio version and for guest
episodes I'll always have a pen and
paper handy so I can write down any
notes any ideas from the episodes and
time stamps for where we might want to
cut up some video Snippets or clips that
might make good shorts for YouTube for
LinkedIn or other social channels
so now I'm going to dive into
Distributing promoting and marketing the
podcast distribution of course super key
to make sure the podcast gets uploaded
to the relevant audio channels Apple
Spotify and the video goes to YouTube
and then we want to make sure it's
marketed right so our target audience
our Dream clients can actually find the
podcast so first and foremost we want to
upload the audio podcast we use a tool
called simplecast that enables us to
easily upload the audio files for each
episode the artwork description and more
and then it will fire out to Apple
Spotify and all the relevant audio
podcasts simplecast is what we use but
there's tons of other tools like becast
there's Buzz Sprout and there's more
then we'll upload the produced video to
YouTube and again put a relevant title
description keywords nice thumbnail and
all that good stuff then we'll make
shorts from the guest episodes or the
solo episodes chop up those videos we've
got some great promotional clip under
one minute to add his YouTube shorts and
use on LinkedIn and socials on the
podcast business page and my personal
profile and then probably one of the
most important parts
of doing guest episodes is we make a
super detailed guest promotional kit
that we email to guests once that
episode is live so what's that's got
first and foremost it says Hey name
thanks very much really enjoyed the show
here's the links to the episode here's
the YouTube this apple the Spotify and
the guest episode page on our website
with all the details then we'll attach
the artwork we'll attach several video
chopped up short clips we'll give them
recommended ways we'll say we recommend
you add the artwork or the video clip
onto LinkedIn put a snapshot summary of
the show maybe some actual tips and then
put a call to action for the links are
in the comments that's where you can put
all the links to the audio video and
episode page so you want to make it
insanely easy for your guests to promote
this episode because after all if they
can cross promote it it's going to help
drive more views more downloads and more
audiences more eyeballs or listeners to
your podcast then
you can promote the episode to your own
email list if you've got an email list
that's a super quick way to get
downloads or views I also do some
storytelling posts so LinkedIn really
likes long form story based content at
the time of writing this and text only
so sometimes I'll write up a nice hook
to get people to read more and then put
quite a detailed post about the episode
or share some actionable tips and then
encourage people the CTA to check the
link in the comments
or lastly you can run sponsored ads so
especially on LinkedIn you can drill
down to with sponsored ads to your focus
audiences whoever that's marketers CMOS
Revenue Ops whatever and then you can
promote your podcast to those Target
audiences with Snippets and then put the
link either in the description or in the
comments that's another way to dive
targeted traffic to your episodes
and another idea for promoting your show
is to go onto a website called
charterable that's charitable.com this
is a listing site that lists all the top
ranking podcasts you can quite literally
search for the industry the niche that
you're focused on Target location apple
or Spotify and then view the top 50 top
100 or more podcasts in that sector
location tuning in through that player
and then what you can do is you can
actually reach out to those top rated
podcasts find those hosts on LinkedIn
send them a personalized request and
basically offer a podcast swap so love
to come on your top rated podcast would
you be against kind of having a
conversation with me about coming on
mine a lot of people love to cross
promote their shows that way you can do
a super actual episode on their show
they can do the same for yours and you
can put a call to action at the end of
that recording for people to check out
your podcast and what's in it for them
found that to be quite an effective way
to ramp up audience to your own show
so when it comes to hardware and I'm
shooting this video on my phone there's
my dog Barney if you're watching on the
video side of things
so when I first started I used a very
basic webcam like a Logitech I think it
was a C920 which is like 30 bucks and
then a simple microphone which is a Blue
Yeti which you can pick up for like 99
bucks or less and then over time after
two years or so I wanted to really ramp
up the production quality so I got a
Sony I think it's an A5 100 DSLR
got a lens eventually a sigma wide angle
lens
which blurs the background which is
quite cool then upgraded to Industry
standard microphone so an sm7b by sure
got some decent large scale lights got
some cool kind of red glowing background
lights and instead of just having me
against a plain background put together
a bit of a bookshelf with an assortment
of kind of a Gong
plants and all that good stuff so my
point here is I started with an MVP and
then gradually upgraded it over time
which is what I recommend start simple
as you start seeing results why not
invest in in more kit improve the
experience for audio audio listeners
video watches and all that good stuff
other ways to make money from your
podcast that I haven't shared could be
through Partnerships or sponsorships so
for example business growth show is
sponsored by our friends over at
leadfeeder.com by dealfront and
essentially lead feeder allow you to
turn your website page views into sales
pipeline so you probably know already
that only about two percent or so of
your website visitors will ever convert
into inquiries leads or demo requests so
leave for you to basically helps you
identify those prospects those B2B
companies that didn't inquire but
visited your site so you can whack them
in your CRM and have your sales team
reach out and strike up those golden
conversations and you can try them out
over at leadfeeder.com to get your 14
day free trial
so to recap and some final thoughts make
sure when you're putting together your
podcast you go super Niche or on the
exact target audience the sector and the
target market and you make sure your
name of your podcast your headline is
relevant to that Niche that industry
that you want to attract and the keyword
is within the title searchable when it
comes to doing guest episodes if you're
going down the account based marketing
the ABM strategy make sure you're
prospecting into those Target accounts
follow the strategies we outline do a
really good show where you build some
Rapport before have some great
conversation ask them some thoughtful
questions make an enjoyable experience
for both them and your audience and
promote it well so you can Strike Up
relationships with those ideal clients
that are future sales opportunities as
well
um and the other guest opportunity angle
is to go for Niche famous guests to use
their clout and Their audience to grow
your own show and grow their brand
and then consider the solar episode
route so to build thought leadership
showcase your expertise in the main
sectors the main topics you want to be
talking about and start to drive inbound
Pipeline and last of all if you're going
to run a podcast make sure you actually
have some enjoyment in the sector
because there's probably not going to be
much longevity in it if you're doing
something that really bores you you have
no interest in at all and that's going
to shine through right if you enjoy
talking about the subject with your
guests on solar episodes the audience is
going to pick up on that and it's going
to mean there's a lot more chance that
you'll carry the podcast through for the
long term
and there we have it I hope you found my
B2B podcasting guide helpful as always
if you did a rating and review on Apple
podcast it's really appreciated or from
YouTube a subscribe goes a long way and
if you want to check out my week daily
B2B marketing email tips playbooks more
podcasts or perhaps you want advice
Consulting on setting up your own
podcast B2B marketing or even your
website and SEO head over to
samdunning.org to check that all out
catch you soon